llama 70b model fusion and shardding (#18175)
microsoft/onnxruntime: onnxruntime/python/tools/transformers/models/llama/README.md

  - Note that `torch` with CUDA enabled is not installed automatically. This is because `torch` should be installed with the CUDA version used on your machine. Please visit [the PyTorch website](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) to download the `torch` version that is used with the CUDA version installed on your machine and satisfies the requirement listed in the file.
- `requirements-quant.txt`
  - For running the SmoothQuant algorithm using [Intel's Neural Compressor](https://github.com/intel/neural-compressor)
- `requirements-70b-model.txt`

>   - For run LLaMA-2 70B model in multiple GPUs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For running the LLaMA-2 70B model on multiple GPUs
```

Here are some additional examples for exporting LLaMA-2.

Export Model with Different GPU Device Ids
```
# From source using first GPU:
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python3 -m models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b

# From wheel using second GPU:
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=1 python3 -m onnxruntime.transformers.models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b

> Export Saved Model on Disk

Reviewer: The "Export Model with Different GPU Device Ids" and "Export Saved Model on Disk" sections appear to be merged when previewing the README. I think you can close the code block after the `CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=1` line and then start the new code block after the `Export Saved Model on Disk` line.

# From source:
$ python3 -m models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b

> # From source using first gpu:

Reviewer: Let's put the CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES examples as the first section so that the user doesn't miss it. Something like this:

Here are some additional examples for exporting LLaMA-2.

Export Model with Different GPU Device Ids
```
# From source using first GPU:
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python3 -m models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b

# From wheel using second GPU:
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=1 python3 -m onnxruntime.transformers.models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b
```

Export Saved Model on Disk
```
# From source:
$ python3 -m models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b

# From wheel:
$ python3 -m onnxruntime.transformers.models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --input ./Llama-2-7b-hf --output ./llama2-7b
```

$ python3 -m onnxruntime.transformers.models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --output llama2-7b-int4-cpu --precision int4 --quantization_method blockwise --execution_provider cpu
```

> Export Sharded model, llama-70b into 4 partitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Export LLaMA-2 70B sharded model into 4 partitions
```

```
# From source:

> $ 1. Get OnnxRuntime code from https://github.com/frankdongms/transformers/tree/frdong/shard_llama or

Reviewer 2: Need update this since user can get code from main branch if this PR is merged.

Author: will do, thanks

> $ 1. Get OnnxRuntime code from https://github.com/frankdongms/transformers/tree/frdong/shard_llama or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 1. Get transformers code from https://github.com/frankdongms/transformers/tree/frdong/shard_llama or
```

> $    wait until PR: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/27119 got merged into HF transformers

Reviewer: We can make a PR later to update `requirements.txt` to use `transformers` from source. Let's remove this line for now.

> $ 2. Build OnnxRuntime from source with NCCL enabled, sample command: ./build.sh --config RelWithDebInfo --use_cuda --cuda_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --cudnn_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --build_wheel --cuda_version=12.2 --parallel --skip_tests --enable_nccl --nccl_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --use_mpi --mpi_home=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 2. Build ONNX Runtime from source with NCCL enabled. Here is an example command:
$ ./build.sh --config Release --use_cuda --cuda_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --cudnn_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --build_wheel --cuda_version=12.2 --parallel --skip_tests --enable_nccl --nccl_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --use_mpi --mpi_home=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/
```

> $ 3. Shard and export llama-70b model: CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 bash run.sh 4 -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --output llama2-7b-dis2 --precision fp16 --execution_provider cuda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 3. Shard and export the LLaMA-2 70B model. Here is an example command:
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 bash run.sh 4 -m meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf --output llama2-70b-dis2 --precision fp16 --execution_provider cuda
```

$ python3 -m onnxruntime.transformers.models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --output llama2-7b-int4-cpu --precision int4 --quantization_method blockwise --execution_provider cpu
```

Export LLaMA-2 70B sharded model into 4 partitions
```
# From source:
# 1. Install necessary packages from requirements-70b-model.txt
# 2. Build Onnx Runtime from source with NCCL enabled. Here is an sample command: ./build.sh --config RelWithDebInfo --use_cuda --cuda_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --cudnn_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --build_wheel --cuda_version=12.2 --parallel --skip_tests --enable_nccl --nccl_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --use_mpi --mpi_home=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

> # 3. Shard and export the LLaMA-2 70B model, we will need at least 4 A100 GPUs to do shard Pytorch model and export each shardding to ONNX. Here is an example command: CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 bash run_70b_model.sh 4 -m meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf --output llama2-70b-dis --precision fp16 --execution_provider cuda

Reviewer: Let's split the commands into their own lines so the user can copy them.

```
# From source:
# 1. Install necessary packages from requirements-70b-model.txt

# 2. Build ONNX Runtime from source with NCCL enabled. Here is a sample command:
$ ./build.sh --config RelWithDebInfo --use_cuda --cuda_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --cudnn_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --build_wheel --cuda_version=12.2 --parallel --skip_tests --enable_nccl --nccl_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --use_mpi --mpi_home=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

# 3. Shard and export the LLaMA-2 70B model. You will need at least 4 A100 GPUs to shard the PyTorch model and export each shard to ONNX. Here is an example command:
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 bash run_70b_model.sh 4 -m meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf --output llama2-70b-dis --precision fp16 --execution_provider cuda
```

$ python3 -m onnxruntime.transformers.models.llama.convert_to_onnx -m meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf --output llama2-7b-int4-cpu --precision int4 --quantization_method blockwise --execution_provider cpu
```

Export LLaMA-2 70B sharded model into 4 partitions
```
# From source:
# 1. Install necessary packages from requirements-70b-model.txt

# 2. Build ONNX Runtime from source with NCCL enabled. Here is a sample command:
$ ./build.sh --config RelWithDebInfo --use_cuda --cuda_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --cudnn_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --build_wheel --cuda_version=12.2 --parallel --skip_tests --enable_nccl --nccl_home /usr/local/cuda-12.2 --use_mpi --mpi_home=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

> # 3. Shard and export the LLaMA-2 70B model. LLaMA-2 70B has 70 billion parameters, with fp16 you will need at least 140GB GPU memory in total to load model weight, so you will need at least 4 40GB A100 GPUs or 2 80GB A100 GPUs to shard the PyTorch model and export each shard to ONNX. Here is an example command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 3. Shard and export the LLaMA-2 70B model. With FP16, you will need at least 140GB of GPU memory to load the model. Therefore, you will need at least 4 40GB A100 GPUs or 2 80GB A100 GPUs to shard the PyTorch model and export each shard to ONNX. Here is an example command:
```
